# Tamil hackathon project - Poompugaar

The main motive of our project is to facilitate shopping in local stores and make shop owners sell their products easily. First, the customer should scan the QR code of the particular shop (usually pasted on the entrance of the shop) through our website which will redirect to the corresponding shop portal. Now the customer can view all the products being offered by the shop and their respective available quantities in a sorted manner. Now the customer can order the products and the same will be notified to the shopkeeper. The customer can make payment through our website and the receipt will be generated, followed by which the shopkeeper notifies the customer through mail that he/she can come to the shop and collect the items. In the shopkeeper portal, the shopkeeper can add, update and delete items in the shop. In the customer portal, the customer can view his/her past order details and the receipts. The same goes with the shopkeeper, where the shopkeeper can view the entire payment details of the shop. Hence by our portal, the shopkeepers can avoid long queues before their shop, and the customer also can view the quantities of the products without standing in the line.


#Idea:
Shopping is a necessary part of our lives but nowadays the queues in the shops are just way too long making it hard for the shopkeeper to manage and also wastes our time. Also when you are standing in the queue the product you want to buy might be out of stock which results in more wasting of time. To avoid these kinds of issues we have come up with a solution that is a platform for sellers and buyers.
##Seller:
They can create a shop and add more shops at any given point in time. They can add the products to the shop with relevant details like name, price, category and stock. They can edit product details to update stock or price changes. They can view all orders in a particular shop and notify the customer to collect the same when ready which is efficient in comparison to the previous methods.
##Buyer:
Instead of waiting in long queues with the help of one scan, the buyer can see all the items in the shop and can order the ones they want and then continue with their work. When the order is ready, the buyer receives a mail from the seller telling when they can collect the order. The buyer also gets to navigate the items in the shop easily with the help of special sorting techniques and filtering methods used.
